---
title: Reproducible and Reliable Development Environments
navigation: false
layout: page
main:
  fluid: false
---

:ellipsis{right=0px width=75% blur=150px}

::block-hero
---
cta:
  - Get started
  - /introduction/what-is-codchi
secondary:
  - Open on GitHub →
  - https://github.com/aformatik/codchi
---


#title
Reproducible and Reliable Development Environments

#description

Codchi is a tool that manages your project's development environment in a reproducible and easy-to-use way. Setting up a development environment should be as easy as a `git clone`!

::alert{type="warning"}
Codchi is currently in beta and still under active development and testing. Please expect potential bugs and incomplete features. We welcome feedback and contributions to help improve stability and functionality!
::



<!-- #extra -->
<!--   ::list -->
<!--   - **+50 Components** ready to build rich pages -->
<!--   - **Docs** and **Page** layouts -->
<!--   - Start from a `README`, scale to a framework documentation -->
<!--   - Navigation and Table of Contents generation -->
<!--   - Fully configurable design system -->
<!--   - Leverages [**Typography**](https://typography.nuxt.space/) and [**Elements**](https://elements.nuxt.dev) -->
<!--   - Used on [Content Documentation](https://content.nuxtjs.org) -->
  <!-- :: -->

#support
:video-player{src="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CBWrj0v-O0c"}
  <!-- ::terminal -->
  <!-- --- -->
  <!-- content: -->
  <!-- - npx nuxi@latest init -t themes/docus -->
  <!-- - cd docs -->
  <!-- - npm install -->
  <!-- - npm run dev -->
  <!-- --- -->
  <!-- :: -->
::

::card-grid
#title
Codchi's features

#root
:ellipsis{left=0px width=40rem top=10rem blur=140px}

#default
  ::card{icon=noto:snowflake}
  #title
  Reproducible and Reliable
  #description
  Codchi builds on the excellent Nix package manager to install, update, and roll back your project's development environment. This means bit-for-bit reproducible environments on any machine.
  ::

  ::card{icon=noto:gear}
  #title
  Declarative
  #description
  Code Machines are defined in code and checked into your repository, allowing you to check out the correct environment at every commit of your project.
  ::

  ::card{icon=noto:unlocked}
  #title
  Built on Standards
  #description
  We didn't reinvent the wheel - every NixOS module is a valid Code Machine. Also, every Code Machine is a valid NixOS module, so you're not locked into Codchi.
  ::

  ::card{icon=noto:magic-wand}
  #title
  Easy to install
  #description
  Installing a Code Machine is as easy as copying and pasting the link to the project repository into Codchi and waiting a few minutes for the installation process to complete.
  ::

  ::card{icon=noto:feather}
  #title
  Easy to use
  #description
  Once installed, shortcuts to graphical programs will appear in your start menu, or you can access a shell containing all available tools.
  ::

  ::card{icon=noto:laptop}
  #title
  Native and Cross Platform
  #description
  Native Looks and Performance on Windows 10, Windows 11 and Linux. Every Code Machine runs the same on any device.
  ::
::
